add 5075 keyboard. (#20556)
qmk/qmk_firmware: keyboards/akko/5075/readme.md

# 5075

> 

Reviewer: Would be good to have a photo of the keyboard and/or the PCB here.

# 5075
![5075](https://github.com/jonylee1986/qmk_firmware_master/assets/108282809/e2b46a2b-4ab5-48bd-90d2-7e8a7a841d7e)

A customizable 75% encoder keyboard.

* Keyboard Maintainer: [jonylee@hfd](https://github.com/jonylee1986)
* Hardware Supported: Akko 5075
* Hardware Availability: [akko](https://www.akkogear.com/)

Make example for this keyboard (after setting up your build environment):

    make akko/5075:default

Flashing example for this keyboard:

    make akko/5075:default:flash
    

> **Reset Key**: Hold down the top left key (commonly programmed as *Esc*) while plugging in the keyboard.
> 
> See the [build environment setup](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools) and the [make instructions](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_make_guide) for more information. Brand new to QMK? Start with our [Complete Newbs Guide](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/newbs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the [build environment setup](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools) and the [make instructions](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_make_guide) for more information. Brand new to QMK? Start with our [Complete Newbs Guide](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/newbs).

## Bootloader

Enter the bootloader in 2 ways:

* **Bootmagic reset**: Hold down the Hold down the top left key (commonly programmed as *Esc*) and plug in the keyboard
* **Keycode in layout**: Press the key mapped to `QK_BOOT` if it is available
```

# 5075

> ![5075](https://github.com/jonylee1986/qmk_firmware_master/assets/108282809/e2b46a2b-4ab5-48bd-90d2-7e8a7a841d7e)

Reviewer 3: Please rehost image on Imgur or similar image hosting site

A customizable 75% encoder keyboard.

* Keyboard Maintainer: [jonylee@hfd](https://github.com/jonylee1986)

> * Hardware Supported: Akko 5075

Reviewer 4: Maybe mention this code is also valid for 5075S kit to avoid confusion.

Reviewer 5: Bumping this.

I've had an opportunity to open up a 5075B variant and it runs on a completely different MCU (Yichip YC3121-L). Therefore the readme here should explicitly state compatibility only with 5075S VIA (and possibly the whole keyboard directory should be `akko/5075s`).

* Hardware Availability: [akko](https://www.akkogear.com/)

Make example for this keyboard (after setting up your build environment):

    make akko/5075:default

Flashing example for this keyboard:

    make akko/5075:default:flash
    
See the [build environment setup](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_build_tools) and the [make instructions](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/getting_started_make_guide) for more information. Brand new to QMK? Start with our [Complete Newbs Guide](https://docs.qmk.fm/#/newbs).

## Bootloader

Enter the bootloader in 2 ways:

> * **Bootmagic reset**: Hold down the Hold down the top left key (commonly programmed as *Esc*) and plug in the keyboard

Reviewer 4: "Hold down the" duplicated.
